How CubeSolver works

Overview

The solver works by first taking the cube to a state where all corners and edges are oriented correctly, and no edge that belongs in the 
middle slice is located in either the top or bottom layers. Every corner and edge with white or yellow will have its white or yellow face
facing the white or yellow side if those are the faces on the top and bottom of the cube, for example. Such a state is known as G1. The
solver then permutes the pieces in a way that brings the cube to its solved state.

Getting a cube to G1

Since this process takes at most 12 moves, the solver starts by applying a sequence of 6 moves or fewer and compares the result against a 
set of patterns. These patterns are found by applying 6 moves or less from the solved state since the solved state is the simplest G1 
pattern to use. They were then sorted to allow for binary search, a very fast way to search through hundreds of thousands of patterns.
A match would indicate that the current pattern can be solved in 6 or less moves. Each of these patterns have with 
them the solutions which bring them back to the solved state. These two sequences together (the 6 starting moves and the solution of the 
intermediate pattern) are used to bring the cube to G1.

Solving the cube

This process is similar to getting to G1, except that certain moves cannot be used since they bring the cube out of G1. Clockwise and 
counter clockwise turns are not allowed on the front, back, left, and right faces. This limits the solver to using only 10 of 18 possible
single moves. A set of 6 moves or fewer that only use such face turns are applied and then the result is compared against a sorted set of
patterns made by applying a set of 7 or fewer moves in the same way. If all sets of 6 moves or fewer are applied and no match is found, 
then the solver  starts over by finding the next G1 state from the original pattern. Note that there are many more phase 1 solutions for
a given pattern than those of phase 2. This algorithm should never exhaust all G1 states this way.
